[Music]
you are getting very very sleepy when I
snap my fingers you will cluck like a
chicken okay then go make me a chicken
sandwich hmm that didn't work did it
well fine good for you that I can't
control minds but there are creatures
out there that actually can hey just
take for instance number one Japanese
oak blue caterpillars before they became
butterflies caterpillars need not only
lots of food but also not to become food
themselves and these particular ones
gained a really awesome skill to protect
themselves they control ants Japanese
oak blue secrete a sweet substance that
ants love and this makes them more
aggressive since they don't want to lose
their precious source of sweetness
they'll protect the caterpillar with
everything they've got
in fact researchers found that ants
become sort of addicted to the
secretions and get mad if something
threatens the caterpillars well I would
too if somebody tried to snatch my cake
right from under my nose number two
BRAC annoyed wasps well Japanese oak
blue caterpillars found a way to get rid
of predators by creating their own army
of ants others become unwilling minions
themselves rach annoyed wasps sting
caterpillars and inject their eggs into
their bodies ooh
caterpillars shrug it off like it's
nothing and go on with their lives but
two weeks later the eggs hatch and wasp
larvae emerge taking over control of the
caterpillar don't get me wrong the
insect is alive and well it just begins
to act like it's got a duty to protect
its kids it furiously attacks anything
that comes near them until they become
fully grown wasps now that's what I call
foster parent love number three Jule
wasps nobody likes cockroaches right
well these wasps do they like roaches so
much that they give their own kids to
them
sorta you see Jule wasps also known as
cockroach wasps first sting a cockroach
to make it behave it's like a slap on
the head the roach is fine but kind of
embarrassed it doesn't know why it
should be though but that doesn't matter
the wasp and takes it by one of its
antennae and walks it into a burrow
where it lays a single egg on the
roaches belly the insect then stays in
the Burrow until the wasp larva hatches
all the while keeping it safe and sound
mama wasp in the meantime calmly goes
about her business
knowing that her cockroach nanny will do
all the work for her it's a great deal
basically it's like taming a wild animal
and handing your kids over to it hmm I
suppose jewel wasp aren't the most
responsible of parents number four
zombie fungus no this fungus isn't
zombified it does the zombify on others
more specifically carpenter ants seem to
be its favorite target it all begins
with a single ant inhaling a score of
the fungus after some time the spore
grows in the ant becomes a list ant and
more fungus in the end a sprout shoots
from the back of the unfortunate ant and
that's where the fungus finally wins it
takes control over the insects mind and
body making it go to a very specific
location with conditions that suit the
fungus best and when they finally reach
the desired spot the fungus start
shooting out spores to get more ants
going its way so it's more like a
freeloading hitchhiking zombified fungus
she stood just call an uber number five
spiny headed worms these guys have found
a really elaborate way to survive adult
spiny headed worms live their whole life
in the guts of starlings and remain
largely unnoticed it's just that being
parasites they can't survive without a
host but what's fascinating about them
is how they get there you see a
starlings favorite food is pill bugs but
these little crawlers are really hard to
find since they like dark damp places
however they have a real taste for of
Starlin droppings guess what they often
find in a fresh meal right you are worm
eggs a pill bug eats those eggs and goes
about its bug business for some time
then the eggs start to hatch and worms
grow inside the bugs body they soon
outgrow their 14 legged mobile home and
that's where the madness begins spiny
headed worms take control over the pill
bugs mind and body and a normally
secretive insect leaves its cozy dark
nest and heads out into the open that's
when a Starling notices the unlucky bug
and eats it and that's exactly what the
worms inside wanted all along now they
have a bigger host that can fit them
more comfortably and the psycho goes on
and on
number six acacia trees so far you've
heard about mind controlling animals and
insects but how about a mind-bending
plant acacia trees have a very weird
kind of relationship with the ants
living on and around them again it's
always the poor ants the tree produces
two kinds of substances one that's
really sweet tasting and awesome for
ants and the other that repels them like
nothing else juggling between the two
acacia can draw the ants where they're
most needed for example if some wood
burrowing insects attack the trunk of
the tree the acacia will produce the
sweet SAP in that specific place and the
bitter one everywhere else the ants are
naturally attracted to the sweetness and
when they see the wood eaters they
attack relentlessly they really like to
protect their tasty treats don't they
but that's not all if there's a plant
nearby that's threatening the acacia
tree it can send the ants that cut off
its leaves making it wilt in the Sun Oh
sounds like full-blown plant warfare
number seven
Zeno's larvae these parasitic insects
live their entire life in the belly of a
wasp Ozzy knows quietly lies in wait
until a wasp lands nearby and then jumps
it from below quickly getting inside
it's body the wasp doesn't even realize
what's going on until it's too late now
wasp are social creatures and they form
colonies infected wasps however become
uninterested in their colony and fly
away but not just anywhere they go to a
meeting place with other infected wasps
the parasites inside them make the
insects change their behavior so that
they can meet up for mating when they're
done with all that they ride the wasp
back to their old colonies and start the
hunt again think I'm starting to see a
pattern with these freeloading
hitchhikers number eight Orchard spider
wasps orchard weaver spiders are quite
common in North America and they're just
like any other arachnid spinning their
webs and munching on unlucky insects
what's crazy about this species is the
way they get attacked by parasitic wasps
such a wasp will land on the spiders
back and sting it while the spider is
knocked out the wasp just nonchalantly
lay some eggs on it when the orchard
spider comes around it just goes about
its business like nothing happened
probably thinking man I had the weirdest
dream
eventually the eggs hatch and the wasp
larvae start quietly gnawing on the
spider how hard can it be to notice
something a quarter of your size biting
you well it seems it takes more than a
couple of munches for the spider to pay
attention where's the mind control and
all that you ask well it starts when the
larvae get big enough they make the
spider stop spinning its web and like
calmly while they get the necessary food
when that's done the spider has to sit
back and watch these baby wasp use its
web as a cocoon imagine going through
all that trouble just to have the house
you built with your own hands taken away
from you by a bunch of kids hmm rough
number 9 Toxoplasma these things aren't
animals are insects they're microscopic
organisms toxoplasmosis is a condition
that anyone can get but it usually
starts with cats
yes our feline companions are the only
animals the Toxoplasma can reproduce
and they get into a Kitty's belly in the
most unusual way we all know that mice
and cats are natural enemies right so
when a mouse smells a feline nearby it
runs away however when a mouse eats
something that contains Toxoplasma the
tiny parasites make the rodent keen on
the scent of cats how insidious now that
our mr. mousey thinks that cats are its
best friends
it gets attracted to them ah it was good
knowing you there little guy a cat
catches the brainwashed mouse dinner is
served
and the crafty Toxoplasma parasites
finally find their new home the felines
intestines but if you think that's it
just wait Toxoplasma has been proven to
affect the human brain too in fact Cosmo
plasmosis sometimes causes neurological
disorders and serious changes in
behavior so it's probably the only
parasite that can control human minds as
well as animals well that could be a
nice horror flick beware of the stalks
do you know of any other superpowers
different creatures possess tell me
about them down in the comments don't
forget to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click subscribe
to stay we're on the bright side of life
[Music]
you